Welcome to yet another exciting lecture and this one.
We are going to be hooking up some functionality and they'll be very basic to our main menu that when
we click host it adds to this list.
Let me just clear the log so that we can see that it's logging out when I hit host.
And it's doing this entirely in the C++.
So let's find out how that's done.
I'm looking forward to it.
So we are here in the you use a widget documentation because I want us to get some clue of how we can
start to register for call-backs when a button is clicked.
Now my first indication would be to try out a few of the different places you might do this.
I would look for begin play for example and notice that there isn't a big in play.
And in fact there isn't in any of the super classes and in fact the constructor is too early to be accessing
the buttons so we shouldn't be doing it in the constructor either.
However there is a method that's appropriate and that method is called initialise.
So initialise is not immediately obvious.
It's further down the list and it doesn't really have very much documentation but it is the one that
you should be using to bind to.
It's virtual and it returns.
Ball so ball because it can succeed or it can fail to initialize.
Let's go ahead and have a go at implementing this initialize in a user a widget So I'm going to take
first of all a copy of the signature and go over to the head of file of our main menu dot H and in there.
I am going to create ourselves a signature of initialise and I'm going to actually make these properties
while we're at it.
I'm going to make the properties private not part of the public interface are they.
And I'm going to make initialise.
Protected.
And then what are we going to do.
Well initialize these semicolon the end of the line.
I'm going to copy that signature everything after virtual as virtual then go in the C plus plus go over
to to the C++ and paste initialize in there and copy the class name u u main menu and put that as the
namespace for initialize and then put some brackets after that.
So we've got a bool returning super class and we do want to call our super class act super initialise
So first port of call is to do that to call the super.
Come on colon initialise.
Doesn't take any arguments so that's fairly easy.
BI Does return a boolean.
So we should be careful that we don't proceed.
If the super initialise has failed the way to do this is to do bull then store the variable and then
just check if.
Not success.
Then we want to return early with false.
Now I'm going to do this all on one line because it's fairly straightforward that if it's not successful
then we should return and we don't need to be looking further.
Okay so that is the first port of call we've called Super which means that now what we can do is do
as set up as we need to so poor to do in here.
To do set up and then at the end we do need to always return something out.
This method because it is a boolean So I'm going to return true if all set up succeeded and we haven't
failed.
In the interim so that's how we do initialised Let's go ahead and build and make sure that that's all
okay.
Excellent our build at succeeders.
I'm fairly happy that we are doing the right thing by calling initialise here now our set up what is
our set up going to be where we're going to bind to our Basically the button being clicked event that
what is that event and how do we get hold of it.
Well let's go and have a look at the button documentation over here.
So again resources always in the lectures.
So here we've got a numerous number of events we got on clicked on hovered on pressed on released very
very straightforward lots of ones for us to go for.
Whether we want to go for clicked or pressed I'm not entirely sure it makes a difference.
I think clicked is better.
I think clicked means released as well.
Perhaps we will see.
And so we've got all of that and that's what we want to be getting hold of.
Okay so let's go over in to the C++ and let's start off by we're trying to access the host.
I believe so.
It's actually a host button really.
But just stick with the naming for now host and then samee.
Okay doing my arrow doesn't seem to be doing anything if I hover over roadsweepers it's an incomplete
class because before declared it.
So if we go back in to the docs and find what the header is at the bottom of the file it's components
but under H cells go back into visual studio and just make sure we include that.
I like to leave my blank line in between includes and that would include the button.
An action be an incomplete type anymore so let's arrow to that and look for the on click on click can
from on click.
It is basically just a dynamic handler but I have broken my paranoia rule.
I haven't checked for NULL on the host.
It could always be possible.
So we want to do a null RET.
Expanding out to do the ensure.
And there I'm going to check that host is not now.
Now one thing we're going to have to do too.
Didn't properly work.
Sometimes my text expander doesn't like to do what it's told.
So let's try that one more time.
There we go.
And one thing we have to note is that when returning we can't just return empty you can't return void
here it's a boolean return type.
So we need to actually return false.
So what we're saying is that if the host is a no pointer then we fail to initialize.
So that should work just fine.
And what we want to do is now bind to that on Click event and handle it in this C++.
And that's something I'm going to leave to you to do as a button on click handler.
So the challenge definition is super simple just like any other dynamic events.
You know how to bind dynamic events by now.
And if not you can look it up.
Print out to the console when the button is clicked and test test test test.
Pause the video and have a go at this.
Okay welcome back.
We're going to dive right in.
So binding dynamic events requires a new function to call so I'm going to go to the main dot H.
And in the private section I'm going to create that you function.
Which doesn't need to be public or anything like that is just a function.
So let's do that.
I'm going to go for a void return type because it shouldn't be passing back anything.
And we need to see what the signature of that on click is.
So let's go over to the you button documentation then go and have a look at our on click and see that
it is of type F on button clicked.
She isn't being very helpful.
F on button clicked event is not a very useful one.
I wonder whether we can find something a bit more useful in this.
One thing that you can do is you can go and look in the document in the documentation in the actual
engine so in Visual Studio the way you would do this is to right click and go to the definition which
gets us to the R F on button clicked event which I can go to definition again.
And after a bit of spinning and maybe a bit of Intellisense it's going to take us to the right destination.
Quick tip if you cancel Intellisense often it will give you just a list of results and you'll be able
to find something if that's not what happens then.
Sometimes if you're impatient you can just do a find and file that'll get you there just as quick.
Now you'll see that it's a Declare dynamic multicast delegate and basically doesn't have any arguments.
Now the reason I say it doesn't have any arguments is because if you look at this piece of documentation
on delegates in general on how to use them and scroll on down to the section about where is it.
Example I think example usage.
You can see that the way that you declare delegates is with these macros that we've seen in the code
base.
But if you want to have more arguments you typically put a suffix on the end such as one parameter 2
parameter and then they have the type of the argument there as well as the name of the delegates so
when it doesn't have that in it's just declared delegate would declare multicast delegate.
Then you know that it takes no arguments.
So that's why we don't need to worry about passing any arguments.
It's just going to be basically saying host server is going to be function with no arguments.
Okay so we're going to go ahead and use this signature to declare it in hassey plus plus file and use
the namespace you main menu and then we're going to go and create a body to this and it's going to be
huie and score log log temp.
Can't type it seems on fingers go temp warning and then it's just got some text saying.
Ghana host a server.
Or something to that effect.
I semicolons for just for effect.
And then we're going to bind this dynamic thing.
There's going to be on click dot and dynamic.
Always wants to alter complete it for me so how to hit controls enter on auto complete and then we want
it to be bound to this and we want it to be bound to you main menu host server so we get the address
of that with the address of operator and then the fully qualified name of host server and then the close
and semicolon.
And I don't have my cap lock on.
Hopefully Okay so let's go ahead and build that hopefully there will be no errors and this is going
to print out.
I'm going to host a server when we click the host button.
Let's see if that is actually the case.
And that's what we're going to get.
Build success.
Let's go over in to unreel and in unreel I'm going to.
Let's see.
Open up my main menu.
Go to the output log that ready and hit play.
And then I'm going to click host.
Yay.
I'm going to have to serve that one works.
Joined doesn't work but we've got one of them working so we know how to do the other one.
No need to do it at this point until we're actually got something to call with joint but HOST We're
going to be using in the next lecture so we're going to be looking at how to connect up that main menu
to our game instance which is actually the thing responsible for doing that hosting.
That's exciting stuff.
Let's see you in the next lecture.